Update 20.treatments.md (#293)
greenelab/covid19-review: content/20.treatments.md

A list of current studies and their results, using carefully the information requested in the therapeutic paper tickets.

> Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEis) and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) are among the most commonly prescribed medications, prescribed well over 100,000,000 times annually in the United States, for example.

Reviewer: This is an assertion that could have a ref. If you took out the specific claims about number of prescriptions I think it could go unsourced.

Author: I am unsure whether I can edit my pull request directly, so I am adding the reference here: @url:https://clincalc.com/DrugStats/Drugs/Lisinopril

Author: Here is a second reference, this one addressing ARBs: @url:https://clincalc.com/DrugStats/Drugs/LosartanPotassium. One could also cite this publication that we wrote last year: https://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/nejmp1901657.

Author: These medications are commonly used for the treatment of hypertension, and somewhat less commonly, but still widely for the treatment of heart failure, kidney disease.

Author: The authors did try to take certain co-existing conditions into account, but in registry data, that is a messy proposition.

Reviewer 2: I need to read the paper more thoroughly, but I do not think that it is correct to say that they found odds of death of .33.  That would mean a probability of death of 25%.  What they said was that there was an odds RATIO of 0.33.  That is very different.

> Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) are among the most commonly prescribed medications, prescribed well over 100,000,000 times annually in the United States, for example.[@url:https://clincalc.com/DrugStats/Drugs/Lisinopril; @doi:10.1056/NEJMp1901657]

Reviewer 3: Out of curiosity, are there particular diseases/disorders that these drugs are commonly used for? Having worked on some of the sections about COVID-19 presentation, I'm curious whether those studies are taking relevant conditions into account.

> Data from some animal models suggest several but not all ACEis and several ARBs increase ACE2 expression in cells of some organs.

Reviewer: Refs?

Author: This reference contains a very comprehensive table addressing the effect of ACE inhibitors and ARBs on ACE2 in cells in various organs in different animal models: @doi:10.1093/cvr/cvaa097. We also have a somewhat less comprehensive discussion on our blog post tracking this issue: @url:http://www.nephjc.com/news/covidace2, but the publication is probably a better citation.

> Data from some animal models suggest several but not all ACE inhibitors and several ARBs increase ACE2 expression in cells of some organs.[@doi:10.1093/cvr/cvaa097]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Data from some animal models suggest several but not all ACE inhibitors and several ARBs increase ACE2 expression in cells of some organs [@doi:10.1093/cvr/cvaa097].
```

> Clinical studies have not established that ACE2 expression is increased in humans treated with these medications.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Clinical studies have not established whether ACE2 expression is increased in humans treated with these medications.
```

> Clinical studies have not established that plasma ACE2 expression is increased in humans treated with these medications.[@doi:10.1093/europace/euw246]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Clinical studies have not established whether plasma ACE2 expression is increased in humans treated with these medications [@doi:10.1093/europace/euw246].
```

> While randomized clinical trials are ongoing, a variety of observational studies have analyzed the relationship between exposure to ACEis or ARBs and outcomes in patients with COVID-19.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While randomized clinical trials are ongoing, a variety of observational studies have examined the relationship between exposure to ACEis or ARBs and outcomes in patients with COVID-19.
```

> Mehra and colleagues reported a 0.33 odds of death in hospitalized patients with COVID-19 who were treated with an ACEi at time of admission.[@doi:10.1056/NEJMoa2007621]

Reviewer: Is ACEi an extremely frequent shortening? As someone who doesn't work with these drugs every day, I feel like ACE inhibitor/s is more readable to me, but if this is very widely used then I won't object :)

Author: It's common, but if our readership won't find it familiar, I propose we use the expanded form.

> In contrast, the authors did not find evidence of an association between exposure to an ARB at time of hospitalization and death.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In contrast, the authors did not find evidence of an association between exposure to an ARB at time of hospitalization and death, with an odds of 1.23 (95% CI, 0.87 to 1.74).
```

> Mehra and colleagues reported a 0.33 odds of death in hospitalized patients with COVID-19 who were treated with an ACE inhibitor at time of admission.[@doi:10.1056/NEJMoa2007621]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Mehra and colleagues reported a 0.33 odds of death in hospitalized patients with COVID-19 who were treated with an ACE inhibitor at time of admission.[@doi:10.1056/NEJMoa2007621]
```
Mehra and colleagues reported a 0.33 odds (95% CI, 0.20 to 0.54) of death in hospitalized patients with COVID-19 who were treated with an ACE inhibitor at time of admission [@doi:10.1056/NEJMoa2007621], indicating a lower rate of death in these patients than in the overall sample of patients observed.

> Mehra and colleagues reported a 0.33 odds of death in hospitalized patients with COVID-19 who were treated with an ACE inhibitor at time of admission.[@doi:10.1056/NEJMoa2007621]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Mehra and colleagues reported a 0.33 odds of death in hospitalized patients with COVID-19 who were treated with an ACE inhibitor at time of admission [@doi:10.1056/NEJMoa2007621].
```

Reviewer 2: The relevant sentence in their abstract is: "No increased risk of in-hospital death was found to be associated with the use of ACE inhibitors (2.1% vs. 6.1%; odds ratio, 0.33; 95% CI, 0.20 to 0.54) or the use of ARBs (6.8% vs. 5.7%; odds ratio, 1.23; 95% CI, 0.87 to 1.74)."  So I think that the 0.33 was *not* an odds, but an odds ratio (ratio of odds between conditions).  An odds of 0.33 would mean that the death rate amoung ACE users was 25% (i.e., 1:3 odds), whereas it was actually 2%.  The ACE users have a significantly lower probability of death than non-ACE users, but the authors don't actually report this as a finding, apparently because they are only reporting observational risk factors and not trying to use observational data to advocate for a treatment.

Author: Thank you. I fully agree about it being an odds ratio. They are reporting it as a finding, however, as far as I can tell. I'm not sure I understand the distinction you're drawing between a finding and something else reported. If they leave the reader with the impression that treatment with a medication is a risk factor (as opposed to a risk marker), they're speaking of the effect of the drug, albeit indirectly.

Reviewer 3: Thanks @dziakj1 ! I knew something felt off, this really helps. Above is modified per your comment!

Reviewer 2: Sorry, I wasn't clear.  What I meant was that they said that there was "no increased risk," rather than saying that there was "decreased risk," as they could have because the difference was in fact statistically significant for a two-sided test.

Reviewer 3: This threw me too. It's actually a logistic regression, and I'm not sure what to make of that with respect to one-tailed vs two-tailed!

Author: The accompanying editorial (doi:@10.1056/NEJMe2012924) focuses on the ARB / ACE inhibitor findings, which are the findings that could change practice if interpreted as having a cause-effect relationship with outcomes.

Reviewer 2: Thanks, @rando2!  I think that when we report an odds ratio, we should tell both conditions being compared.  An odds ratio is always saying that there was less risk in one condition than in another, so it doesn't make sense unless we tell the conditions.  2% of the users and 6% of the non-users died in hospital.  It seems like they could have used this to argue that ACE inhibitors are protective, but didn't want to, because of the observational nature of the data.

Reviewer 3: @dziakj1 for some reason, I'm struggling with the grammar here! Hopefully this suggestion gets a bit closer to correct!

Reviewer 2: Yes, I like the new version much better: .33 odds ratio relative to other patients. Thanks @rando2  and @byrdjb!

Author: Good discussion! Thank you, @dziakj1 & @rando2 for very helpful corrections and suggestions.

Reviewer 2: It probably wouldn't even hurt to add "2.1% vs. 6.1%" to avoid misunderstandings, but that is up to you.

Reviewer 2: @rando2   I think that maybe they were thinking of their test as one-tailed, even though the software did a two-tailed test.  That is, they decided not to report the finding because they weren't looking for it.  This is an extremely cautious, conservative approach, but isn't wrong.

> Because observational studies are subject to confounding, the greatly lower odds of death in the patients exposed to ACEis in this study cannot be interpreted as an effect of the ACEi.

Reviewer: Is there anything that would make you think that folks receiving ARBs might be a different population than those getting ACEis? Pricing differences, pharmacogenomics, regional treatment patterns? This is a question, not a critique on this sentence.

Author: Some reasons to predict variation in prescribing these between populations is a high incidence of persistent cough in Chinese patients taking ACE inhibitors [@pmid:8562296] and variation in incidence of a potentially life-threatening side effect called ACE inhibitor-associated angioedema. [@doi:10.1001/archinte.165.14.1637]

Author: I changed the wording a little to emphasize that observational studies are not the standard for assessing drug effects.

Reviewer 2: I need to read the paper more thoroughly, but I do not think that it is correct to say that they found odds of death of .33. That would mean a probability of death of 25%. What they said was that there was an odds RATIO of 0.33. That is very different.

Reviewer 2: Remember that 
odds = probability of yes  divided by probability of no
odds ratio = odds in one condition, divided by odds in another

Reviewer 2: They say, " for ACE inhibitor use, the odds ratio was 0.33."  They don't say anything about an odds of .33.  So I think the proposed text is incorrect and needs to be clarified.  Thanks!

Author: Thanks, @dziakj1. That's certainly a big difference, and I need to correct that. 👍

Author: Is their paper subject the Table 2 Fallacy (@pmid:23371353)? I thought that might be the case reading it, but I would certainly defer to your expertise.

> Because observational studies are subject to confounding, the greatly lower odds of death in the patients exposed to ACEis in this study cannot be interpreted as an effect of the ACEi.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Because observational studies are subject to confounding, the reduced odds of death in the patients exposed to ACEis in this study cannot be interpreted as indicating a protective effect of the ACEi.
```

> Clinical trials testing the effects of ACEis or ARBs on COVID-19 outcomes are ongoing

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Clinical trials testing the effects of ACEis or ARBs on COVID-19 outcomes are ongoing [@url:https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT04338009; @url:https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT04353596; @url:https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT04311177; @url:https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT04312009; @url:https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT04330300; @url:https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT04366050].
Because these studies are interventional, they will provide important data for understanding whether exposure to ACEis or ARBs is associated with COVID-19 outcomes.
```

Author: I like the addition, but the elegance of randomization is that we can upgrade from "is associated with" to "influences."

Reviewer 3: Modified!

> Clinical trials testing the effects of ACEis or ARBs on COVID-19 outcomes are ongoing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clinical trials testing the effects of ACEis or ARBs on COVID-19 outcomes are ongoing
```

> Because observational studies are subject to confounding, randomized controlled trials are the standard means of assessing the effects of medications, and the findings of this study cannot be interpreted as effects of a drug.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Because observational studies are subject to confounding, randomized controlled trials are the standard means of assessing the effects of medications, and the findings of this study cannot be interpreted as indicating a protective effect of the drug.
```

> Clinical trials testing the effects of ACE inhibitors or ARBs on COVID-19 outcomes are ongoing

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Clinical trials testing the effects of ACE inhibitors or ARBs on COVID-19 outcomes are ongoing [@url:https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT04338009; @url:https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT04353596; @url:https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT04311177; @url:https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT04312009; @url:https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT04330300; @url:https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT04366050].
Because these studies are interventional, they will provide important data for understanding whether exposure to ACEis or ARBs is associated with COVID-19 outcomes.
```
Missed copying one over -- just a formatting change and then perhaps some sort of summary sentence at the end?

> [@url:https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT04338009; @url:https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT04353596; @url:https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT04311177; @url:https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT04312009; @url:https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT04330300; @url:https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT04366050]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[@url:https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT04338009; @url:https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT04353596; @url:https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT04311177; @url:https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT04312009; @url:https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT04330300; @url:https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT04366050].
```

> [@url:https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT04338009; @url:https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT04353596; @url:https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT04311177; @url:https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT04312009; @url:https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT04330300; @url:https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT04366050].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
